Superstore Profitability & Returns Analysis
Overview
This project analyzes sales and return data from a retail superstore to improve profitability and operational efficiency. Using Tableau, we examine profit trends, identify underperforming products and subcategories, analyze return behavior, and recommend advertising strategies.

Data Source
Superstore.xls containing:

Orders

Returns

People

Tools Used
Tableau

Key Actions Taken
Data Join: LEFT JOINed Returns onto Orders table.

Calculated Field: Created Returned field (Yes = 1, NULL = 0).

Profitability Analysis:

Identified top and bottom product subcategories by region.

Highlighted products and subcategories with persistent losses.

Return Rate Analysis:

Determined products and customers with highest return rates.

Advertising Strategy:

Found best state-month combinations to advertise.

Justified advertising budget as 20% of regional profit.

Visualizations:

Average profit vs. return rate by product, customer, and state.

Key Findings
📈 Top Performers
Biggest Profit Centers:

Copiers (West)

Chairs (East)

Best States to Advertise:

Vermont in November ($119.20)

Indiana in October ($128.62)

Washington in March ($104.26)

📉 Areas to Improve
Biggest Loss Makers:

Binders (Central)

Tables (East)

Products to Eliminate:

Especially GBC DocuBind P400 Electric Binding System

Subcategories to Stop Selling:

Tables, Bookcases, Supplies

States to Consider Exiting:

Oregon, Tennessee, Colorado (Low profit + High returns)

🚩 Return Concerns
Products with 100% Return Rate: 8 total

High-Return Customers: Hilary Holden, Roland Murray (100% return rate)

Recommendations
Eliminate persistently unprofitable products and subcategories.

Focus advertising in high-profit, low-return regions during peak months.

Monitor customer behavior to reduce returns.

Consider ceasing operations in unprofitable states with high return rates.
